README.md, before:

[![Pub][pub_badge]][pub] [![BuyMeACoffee][buy_me_a_coffee_badge]][buy_me_a_coffee]

# flutter_mapbox_navigation

Add Turn By Turn Navigation to Your Flutter Application Using MapBox. Never leave your app when you need to navigate your users to a location.

## Features

* A full-fledged turn-by-turn navigation UI for Flutter that’s ready to drop into your application
* [Professionally designed map styles](https://www.mapbox.com/maps/) for daytime and nighttime driving
* Worldwide driving, cycling, and walking directions powered by [open data](https://www.mapbox.com/about/open/) and user feedback
* Traffic avoidance and proactive rerouting based on current conditions in [over 55 countries](https://docs.mapbox.com/help/how-mapbox-works/directions/#traffic-data)
* Natural-sounding turn instructions powered by [Amazon Polly](https://aws.amazon.com/polly/) (no configuration needed)
* [Support for over two dozen languages](https://docs.mapbox.com/ios/navigation/overview/localization-and-internationalization/)

## IOS Configuration

1. Go to your [Mapbox account dashboard](https://account.mapbox.com/) and create an access token that has the `DOWNLOADS:READ` scope. **PLEASE NOTE: This is not the same as your production Mapbox API token. Make sure to keep it private and do not insert it into any Info.plist file.** Create a file named `.netrc` in your home directory if it doesn’t already exist, then add the following lines to the end of the file:
   ```
   machine api.mapbox.com
     login mapbox
     password PRIVATE_MAPBOX_API_TOKEN
   ```
   where _PRIVATE_MAPBOX_API_TOKEN_ is your Mapbox API token with the `DOWNLOADS:READ` scope.
   
1. Mapbox APIs and vector tiles require a Mapbox account and API access token. In the project editor, select the application target, then go to the Info tab. Under the “Custom iOS Target Properties” section, set `MBXAccessToken` to your access token. You can obtain an access token from the [Mapbox account page](https://account.mapbox.com/access-tokens/).

1. In order for the SDK to track the user’s location as they move along the route, set `NSLocationWhenInUseUsageDescription` to:
   > Shows your location on the map and helps improve OpenStreetMap.

1. Users expect the SDK to continue to track the user’s location and deliver audible instructions even while a different application is visible or the device is locked. Go to the Capabilities tab. Under the Background Modes section, enable “Audio, AirPlay, and Picture in Picture” and “Location updates”. (Alternatively, add the `audio` and `location` values to the `UIBackgroundModes` array in the Info tab.)


## Android Configuration

1. Mapbox APIs and vector tiles require a Mapbox account and API access token. Add your token in strings.xml file of your android apps res/values/ path. The string key should be "mapbox_access_token". You can obtain an access token from the [Mapbox account page](https://account.mapbox.com/access-tokens/).
```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<resources>
    <string name="app_name">Navigation map</string>
    <string name="mapbox_access_token" translatable="false">ADD_MAPBOX_ACCESS_TOKEN_HERE</string>
    <string name="user_location_permission_explanation">This app needs location permissions to show its functionality.</string>
    <string name="user_location_permission_not_granted">You didn\'t grant location permissions.</string>
</resources>
```

2. Add the following permissions to the app level Android Manifest
```xml
<manifest>
    ...
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.ACCESS_COARSE_LOCATION" />
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.ACCESS_FINE_LOCATION" />
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.ACCESS_NETWORK_STATE" />
    ...
</manifest>
```

3. Add the MapBox Downloads token with the ```downloads:read``` scope to your gradle.properties file in Android folder to enable downloading the MapBox binaries from the repository. To secure this token from getting checked into source control, you can add it to the gradle.properties of your GRADLE_HOME which is usually at $USER_HOME/.gradle for Mac. This token can be retrieved from your [MapBox Dashboard](https://account.mapbox.com/access-tokens/). You can review the [Token Guide](https://docs.mapbox.com/accounts/guides/tokens/) to learn more about download tokens
```text
MAPBOX_DOWNLOADS_TOKEN=sk.XXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
```

After adding the above, your gradle.properties file may look something like this:
```text
org.gradle.jvmargs=-Xmx1536M
android.useAndroidX=true
android.enableJetifier=true
MAPBOX_DOWNLOADS_TOKEN=sk.epe9nE9peAcmwNzKVNqSbFfp2794YtnNepe9nE9peAcmwNzKVNqSbFfp2794YtnN.-HrbMMQmLdHwYb8r
```

## Usage

#### Set Default Route Options (Optional)
```dart
    MapBoxNavigation.instance.setDefaultOptions(MapBoxOptions(
                     initialLatitude: 36.1175275,
                     initialLongitude: -115.1839524,
                     zoom: 13.0,
                     tilt: 0.0,
                     bearing: 0.0,
                     enableRefresh: false,
                     alternatives: true,
                     voiceInstructionsEnabled: true,
                     bannerInstructionsEnabled: true,
                     allowsUTurnAtWayPoints: true,
                     mode: MapBoxNavigationMode.drivingWithTraffic,
                     mapStyleUrlDay: "https://url_to_day_style",
                     mapStyleUrlNight: "https://url_to_night_style",
                     units: VoiceUnits.imperial,
                     simulateRoute: true,
                     language: "en"))
```

#### Listen for Events

```dart
  MapBoxNavigation.instance.registerRouteEventListener(_onRouteEvent);
  Future<void> _onRouteEvent(e) async {

        _distanceRemaining = await _directions.distanceRemaining;
        _durationRemaining = await _directions.durationRemaining;
    
        switch (e.eventType) {
          case MapBoxEvent.progress_change:
            var progressEvent = e.data as RouteProgressEvent;
            _arrived = progressEvent.arrived;
            if (progressEvent.currentStepInstruction != null)
              _instruction = progressEvent.currentStepInstruction;
            break;
          case MapBoxEvent.route_building:
          case MapBoxEvent.route_built:
            _routeBuilt = true;
            break;
          case MapBoxEvent.route_build_failed:
            _routeBuilt = false;
            break;
          case MapBoxEvent.navigation_running:
            _isNavigating = true;
            break;
          case MapBoxEvent.on_arrival:
            _arrived = true;
            if (!_isMultipleStop) {
              await Future.delayed(Duration(seconds: 3));
              await _controller.finishNavigation();
            } else {}
            break;
          case MapBoxEvent.navigation_finished:
          case MapBoxEvent.navigation_cancelled:
            _routeBuilt = false;
            _isNavigating = false;
            break;
          default:
            break;
        }
        //refresh UI
        setState(() {});
      }
```

#### Begin Navigating

```dart

    final cityhall = WayPoint(name: "City Hall", latitude: 42.886448, longitude: -78.878372);
    final downtown = WayPoint(name: "Downtown Buffalo", latitude: 42.8866177, longitude: -78.8814924);

    var wayPoints = List<WayPoint>();
    wayPoints.add(cityHall);
    wayPoints.add(downtown);
    
    await MapBoxNavigation.instance.startNavigation(wayPoints: wayPoints);
```

#### Screenshots
![Navigation View](screenshots/screenshot1.png?raw=true "iOS View") | ![Android View](screenshots/screenshot2.png?raw=true "Android View")
|:---:|:---:|
| iOS View | Android View |



## Embedding Navigation View


#### Declare Controller
```dart
      MapBoxNavigationViewController _controller;
```

#### Add Navigation View to Widget Tree
```dart
            Container(
                color: Colors.grey,
                child: MapBoxNavigationView(
                    options: _options,
                    onRouteEvent: _onRouteEvent,
                    onCreated:
                        (MapBoxNavigationViewController controller) async {
                      _controller = controller;
                    }),
              ),
```
#### Build Route

```dart
        var wayPoints = List<WayPoint>();
                            wayPoints.add(_origin);
                            wayPoints.add(_stop1);
                            wayPoints.add(_stop2);
                            wayPoints.add(_stop3);
                            wayPoints.add(_stop4);
                            wayPoints.add(_origin);
                            _controller.buildRoute(wayPoints: wayPoints);
```

#### Start Navigation

```dart
    _controller.startNavigation();
```

### Additional IOS Configuration
Add the following to your `info.plist` file

```xml
    <dict>
        ...
        <key>io.flutter.embedded_views_preview</key>
        <true/>
        ...
    </dict>
```

### Embedding Navigation Screenshots
![Navigation View](screenshots/screenshot3.png?raw=true "Embedded iOS View") | ![Navigation View](screenshots/screenshot4.png?raw=true "Embedded Android View")
|:---:|:---:|
| Embedded iOS View | Embedded Android View |

## To Do
* [DONE] Android Implementation
* [DONE] Add more settings like Navigation Mode (driving, walking, etc)
* [DONE] Stream Events like relevant navigation notifications, metrics, current location, etc. 
* [DONE] Embeddable Navigation View 
* Offline Routing

<!-- Links -->
[pub_badge]: https://img.shields.io/pub/v/flutter_mapbox_navigation.svg
[pub]: https://pub.dev/packages/flutter_mapbox_navigation
[buy_me_a_coffee]: https://www.buymeacoffee.com/eopeter
[buy_me_a_coffee_badge]: https://img.buymeacoffee.com/button-api/?text=Donate&emoji=&slug=eopeter&button_colour=29b6f6&font_colour=000000&font_family=Cookie&outline_colour=000000&coffee_colour=FFDD00

Commit message:

chore(ios): depend on 2.10 sdk versions (compat with mapbox_maps) chore(android): exclude maps-lifecycle module fix(android): fix memory leaks feat(android): apply mapStyleUri

README.md, after:

[![Pub][pub_badge]][pub] [![BuyMeACoffee][buy_me_a_coffee_badge]][buy_me_a_coffee]

# flutter_mapbox_navigation

Add Turn By Turn Navigation to Your Flutter Application Using MapBox. Never leave your app when you need to navigate your users to a location.

### This is a fork meant to fix issues with the original plugin when used with mapbox_maps_flutter. and it may have some special use cases I'll document.
## Features

* A full-fledged turn-by-turn navigation UI for Flutter that’s ready to drop into your application
* [Professionally designed map styles](https://www.mapbox.com/maps/) for daytime and nighttime driving
* Worldwide driving, cycling, and walking directions powered by [open data](https://www.mapbox.com/about/open/) and user feedback
* Traffic avoidance and proactive rerouting based on current conditions in [over 55 countries](https://docs.mapbox.com/help/how-mapbox-works/directions/#traffic-data)
* Natural-sounding turn instructions powered by [Amazon Polly](https://aws.amazon.com/polly/) (no configuration needed)
* [Support for over two dozen languages](https://docs.mapbox.com/ios/navigation/overview/localization-and-internationalization/)

## IOS Configuration

1. Go to your [Mapbox account dashboard](https://account.mapbox.com/) and create an access token that has the `DOWNLOADS:READ` scope. **PLEASE NOTE: This is not the same as your production Mapbox API token. Make sure to keep it private and do not insert it into any Info.plist file.** Create a file named `.netrc` in your home directory if it doesn’t already exist, then add the following lines to the end of the file:
   ```
   machine api.mapbox.com
     login mapbox
     password PRIVATE_MAPBOX_API_TOKEN
   ```
   where _PRIVATE_MAPBOX_API_TOKEN_ is your Mapbox API token with the `DOWNLOADS:READ` scope.
   
1. Mapbox APIs and vector tiles require a Mapbox account and API access token. In the project editor, select the application target, then go to the Info tab. Under the “Custom iOS Target Properties” section, set `MBXAccessToken` to your access token. You can obtain an access token from the [Mapbox account page](https://account.mapbox.com/access-tokens/).

1. In order for the SDK to track the user’s location as they move along the route, set `NSLocationWhenInUseUsageDescription` to:
   > Shows your location on the map and helps improve OpenStreetMap.

1. Users expect the SDK to continue to track the user’s location and deliver audible instructions even while a different application is visible or the device is locked. Go to the Capabilities tab. Under the Background Modes section, enable “Audio, AirPlay, and Picture in Picture” and “Location updates”. (Alternatively, add the `audio` and `location` values to the `UIBackgroundModes` array in the Info tab.)


## Android Configuration

1. Mapbox APIs and vector tiles require a Mapbox account and API access token. Add your token in strings.xml file of your android apps res/values/ path. The string key should be "mapbox_access_token". You can obtain an access token from the [Mapbox account page](https://account.mapbox.com/access-tokens/).
```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<resources>
    <string name="app_name">Navigation map</string>
    <string name="mapbox_access_token" translatable="false">ADD_MAPBOX_ACCESS_TOKEN_HERE</string>
    <string name="user_location_permission_explanation">This app needs location permissions to show its functionality.</string>
    <string name="user_location_permission_not_granted">You didn\'t grant location permissions.</string>
</resources>
```

2. Add the following permissions to the app level Android Manifest
```xml
<manifest>
    ...
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.ACCESS_COARSE_LOCATION" />
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.ACCESS_FINE_LOCATION" />
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.ACCESS_NETWORK_STATE" />
    ...
</manifest>
```

3. Add the MapBox Downloads token with the ```downloads:read``` scope to your global gradle.properties file  (typically in ~/.gradle/gradle.properties) folder to enable downloading the MapBox binaries from the repository. To secure this token from getting checked into source control, you can add it to the gradle.properties of your GRADLE_HOME which is usually at $USER_HOME/.gradle for Mac. This token can be retrieved from your [MapBox Dashboard](https://account.mapbox.com/access-tokens/). You can review the [Token Guide](https://docs.mapbox.com/accounts/guides/tokens/) to learn more about download tokens
```text
MAPBOX_DOWNLOADS_TOKEN=sk.XXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
```

After adding the above, your gradle.properties file may look something like this:
```text
org.gradle.jvmargs=-Xmx1536M
android.useAndroidX=true
android.enableJetifier=true
SDK_REGISTRY_TOKEN=sk.epe9nE9peAcmwNzKVNqSbFfp2794YtnNepe9nE9peAcmwNzKVNqSbFfp2794YtnN.-HrbMMQmLdHwYb8r
```

## Usage

#### Set Default Route Options (Optional)
```dart
    MapBoxNavigation.instance.setDefaultOptions(MapBoxOptions(
                     initialLatitude: 36.1175275,
                     initialLongitude: -115.1839524,
                     zoom: 13.0,
                     tilt: 0.0,
                     bearing: 0.0,
                     enableRefresh: false,
                     alternatives: true,
                     voiceInstructionsEnabled: true,
                     bannerInstructionsEnabled: true,
                     allowsUTurnAtWayPoints: true,
                     mode: MapBoxNavigationMode.drivingWithTraffic,
                     mapStyleUrlDay: "https://url_to_day_style",
                     mapStyleUrlNight: "https://url_to_night_style",
                     units: VoiceUnits.imperial,
                     simulateRoute: true,
                     language: "en"))
```

#### Listen for Events

```dart
  MapBoxNavigation.instance.registerRouteEventListener(_onRouteEvent);
  Future<void> _onRouteEvent(e) async {

        _distanceRemaining = await _directions.distanceRemaining;
        _durationRemaining = await _directions.durationRemaining;
    
        switch (e.eventType) {
          case MapBoxEvent.progress_change:
            var progressEvent = e.data as RouteProgressEvent;
            _arrived = progressEvent.arrived;
            if (progressEvent.currentStepInstruction != null)
              _instruction = progressEvent.currentStepInstruction;
            break;
          case MapBoxEvent.route_building:
          case MapBoxEvent.route_built:
            _routeBuilt = true;
            break;
          case MapBoxEvent.route_build_failed:
            _routeBuilt = false;
            break;
          case MapBoxEvent.navigation_running:
            _isNavigating = true;
            break;
          case MapBoxEvent.on_arrival:
            _arrived = true;
            if (!_isMultipleStop) {
              await Future.delayed(Duration(seconds: 3));
              await _controller.finishNavigation();
            } else {}
            break;
          case MapBoxEvent.navigation_finished:
          case MapBoxEvent.navigation_cancelled:
            _routeBuilt = false;
            _isNavigating = false;
            break;
          default:
            break;
        }
        //refresh UI
        setState(() {});
      }
```

#### Begin Navigating

```dart

    final cityhall = WayPoint(name: "City Hall", latitude: 42.886448, longitude: -78.878372);
    final downtown = WayPoint(name: "Downtown Buffalo", latitude: 42.8866177, longitude: -78.8814924);

    var wayPoints = List<WayPoint>();
    wayPoints.add(cityHall);
    wayPoints.add(downtown);
    
    await MapBoxNavigation.instance.startNavigation(wayPoints: wayPoints);
```

#### Screenshots
![Navigation View](screenshots/screenshot1.png?raw=true "iOS View") | ![Android View](screenshots/screenshot2.png?raw=true "Android View")
|:---:|:---:|
| iOS View | Android View |



## Embedding Navigation View


#### Declare Controller
```dart
      MapBoxNavigationViewController _controller;
```

#### Add Navigation View to Widget Tree
```dart
            Container(
                color: Colors.grey,
                child: MapBoxNavigationView(
                    options: _options,
                    onRouteEvent: _onRouteEvent,
                    onCreated:
                        (MapBoxNavigationViewController controller) async {
                      _controller = controller;
                    }),
              ),
```
#### Build Route

```dart
        var wayPoints = List<WayPoint>();
                            wayPoints.add(_origin);
                            wayPoints.add(_stop1);
                            wayPoints.add(_stop2);
                            wayPoints.add(_stop3);
                            wayPoints.add(_stop4);
                            wayPoints.add(_origin);
                            _controller.buildRoute(wayPoints: wayPoints);
```

#### Start Navigation

```dart
    _controller.startNavigation();
```

### Additional IOS Configuration
Add the following to your `info.plist` file

```xml
    <dict>
        ...
        <key>io.flutter.embedded_views_preview</key>
        <true/>
        ...
    </dict>
```

### Embedding Navigation Screenshots
![Navigation View](screenshots/screenshot3.png?raw=true "Embedded iOS View") | ![Navigation View](screenshots/screenshot4.png?raw=true "Embedded Android View")
|:---:|:---:|
| Embedded iOS View | Embedded Android View |

## To Do
* [DONE] Android Implementation
* [DONE] Add more settings like Navigation Mode (driving, walking, etc)
* [DONE] Stream Events like relevant navigation notifications, metrics, current location, etc. 
* [DONE] Embeddable Navigation View 
* Offline Routing

<!-- Links -->
[pub_badge]: https://img.shields.io/pub/v/flutter_mapbox_navigation.svg
[pub]: https://pub.dev/packages/flutter_mapbox_navigation
[buy_me_a_coffee]: https://www.buymeacoffee.com/eopeter
[buy_me_a_coffee_badge]: https://img.buymeacoffee.com/button-api/?text=Donate&emoji=&slug=eopeter&button_colour=29b6f6&font_colour=000000&font_family=Cookie&outline_colour=000000&coffee_colour=FFDD00
